## What is Datatype

- ##### In programming, data types refer to the kind of value a variable can hold.
- ##### In JavaScript, data types can be broadly categorized into two groups: `primitive` and `non-primitive` data types.

---

### 1.Strings

- ##### A string is a data type used to represent textual data.
- ##### string is any set of characters enclosed in quotes, either single quote `' '` or double quote `" "`, or even backticks (`)

```js
let userName = "Abhishek";
console.log(userName);

console.log(typeof userName); // gives the type of data stored in the variable
```

---

### 2.Numbers

- ##### The number data type is used to represent numeric values.
- ##### In JavaScript, numbers can be integers or floating-point (decimals).

```js
let age = 25;
console.log(typeof age); // Outputs: number

let price = 99.99;
console.log(typeof price); // Outputs: number
```

---

### 3. Boolean

- ##### A Boolean data type has only two possible values: `true` or `false`
- ##### It is typically used to perform conditional checks or represent binary states, such as whether a product is in a shopping cart or not.

```js
let isProductInCart = false;
console.log(typeof isProductInCart);
```

---

### 4.Undefined

- ##### It is basically a value assigned to a variable when no value is assigned to a variable after decleration.
- ##### The undefined data type is used when a variable is declared but not yet assigned a value.
- ##### it is just a value of variable which is not initialized after decleration

```js
let age;
console.log(typeof age);
console.log(age);
```

---

### 5.Null

- ##### basically `Null` means having no value or nothing
- ##### The `null` data type is used to represent the intentional absence of any value on a variable.

```js
let noValue = null;
console.log(typeof noValue); // object
console.log(noValue); // null
```

---

### 6. Objects

- ##### It is `non-primitive` datatype where multiiple values of multiple datatypes can be assigned to a single variable.
- ##### Objects can hold multiple values as key-value pairs.
- ##### You can create an object using curly braces `{}`.
- ##### `{}` - provides way to store data in `key : value` pair where `key` acts a `variable name` and `value` acts as the data of the variable which can be of any datatype.

```js
const personDetails = { name: "Abhishek", age: 99, education: "Illeterate" };
console.log(typeof personDetails);
console.log(personDetails);
```

---

### 7.Array

- ##### An array is a special type of object used to store collection of datas of different types under a single variable seperated by commas `,`
- ##### Arrays are defined using square brackets `[]`.

```js
const arrayOfNumbers = [1, 2, 3, 8, 0, 3, 5, "Abhishk"];
console.log(typeof arrayOfNumbers);
console.log(arrayOfNumbers);
```

---



---

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this guide by adding more examples or improving explanations!

---

## 📄 License

This guide is free to use for learning purposes.

---

**Made with ❤️ by [Abhishek Mehata](https://github.com/Abhishek-mehata)**

Happy Learning! 🚀